# nosql-challenge
All code written by Christopher Benson. Reference for datatype script from <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/retrieving-collection-datatypes-mongodb-using-python-shanoj-kumar-v>. The NoSQL setup script can be found in the "Scripts" directory as NoSQL_setup_script.ipynb. The NoSQL analysis script can be found in the "Scripts" directory as NoSQL_analysis_script.ipynb. 
Setup Summary: In the Setup Script, I first establish the database ("uk_food") and collection ("establishments") I need for the analysis. I then inserted a new entry into the collection, verified it was successfully inserted, and updated the missing "BusinessType" field. Next, I located, counted, and deleted all entries in the "Dover" Local Authority. Lastly, I cleaned up the data by converting the Rating Values and the geocodes data types to the applicable number types. 
Analysis Summary: I started the Exploratory Analysis by querying all establishments that have a Hygiene score of 20, then converting the results to a DataFrame. Next, I isolated all London establishments that have a Rating Value of at least 4. These resuts were also then converted to a DataFrame. I then located all establishments with geocodes within 0.1 degrees of our new entry from earlier. I accomplished this search area first by isolating the establishment and its geocode data. Then I converted that data into a DataFrame from which I could easily pull the information. By adding and subtracting the search degree parameters, I had variables that I could use in the query to limit the geographical search for relevant establishments. I next filtered those results to establishments with only a Rating Value of 5, sorted by lowest hygiene score, and finally limited to just the top five entries. These results were also converted to a DataFrame. For the final analysis, I found each establishment that has a Hygiene score of zero and grouped those results by the Local Authority. I sorted the results from highest number of establishments to lowest, then converted the results to a DataFrame.